In the future, you might create models that have more columns than just a couple, or you might not
like the idea that you need to reassign every single input value to a model property, explicitly eloquent
models allowed to perform mass assignment as a solution.
Since this is potentially a security vulnerability, you need to be explicit about properties that can
be mass assigned vars in the model class, the fillable property must be defined and contain all model
columns that can be assigned at Mass.
The protection is there, as you might unintentionally override properties, you did not really want
to be changed so easily like the user's password.
There are free ways to perform the assignment when constructing a new model.
You can either use, create or make model static methods.
The difference between them is very significant.
Create.
Would create a new model instance, feel all of its properties with the input and immediately try to
save the model to the database.
Make will create their model, feel its properties, but it would not try to save the model to the database.
Both of these methods create and make will create a new instance of the middle class, but if you create,
you don't need to call save on their model, but with make, you will have to call save at some point
to actually save it to the database.
Why?
There are two separate methods.
Well, they have their own use cases.
If you have all properties needed at a time, you can use create.
But if a model has related models which might not exist yet, or you don't have values for all needed
properties yet, you can use their make methods to partially fill model columns and only save it when
you collect more data.
The third way is to use the field method, the fuel method only exists in the model instance, so it
is not a static method.
You will use it like that on an existing model instance.
You can call, feel and pass an array of attributes to it.
It's useful if you already have the model instance, so in cases where you want to modify an existing
model or the instance was just previously created somewhere else, all of those methods accept an array
as a parameter.
The keys of the array are column.
The names and values are the values you want to assign to this columns.
If you take a look at the blog post storm, I thought this might ring a bell in your heads.
In fact, you already have an array of user input with keys matching the column names of the model.
And this data is additionally already validated.
It seems logical that the code can be made shorter by using the model create method and passing the
validated input to it.
So instead of those four lines, we can do something like this to the post variable, we will assign
the blog post create with the validated as an input.
Now, a reminder, before you can use the create method, you have to add the columns that can be assigned
to the fillable field, because if you want to do that, this is what happens.
Imagine that's a valid input.
That's the error you get.
So you need to explicitly define those columns in the fillable field, let's do that now.
So we need the title here and content.
And every time you will have more fields on the models and you want them as assigned, remember to add
them to the fillable field.
So now let's try again.
This time it went fine.